Hi, John!

First, school has started and everything is running fine. We were able to finally get cell phones, so I wanted to let you know our
new cell phone #s (the house phone remains the same, as our DSL runs on that.

Mine: 316-249-3156

Norm's: 316-249-2080
 
School is off to a roaring start. I'm taking sculpture and learning to cast metal and making flexible molds.
This is the term that I'm making a bust of my mom to donate to the Bowlus Fine Arts Center in Iola, providing that it
turns out successfully. I'll also be making several small figural sculptures about the aging of the female body.
Painting is going along as well. I'm not quite sure what I'm doing except that I'm doing a few representational still lifes and
another landscape for the purpose of applying for the Koch Cultural grant to go to the Int'l School of Art and Painting in
Montecastello, Italy next summer. WSU has a teaching arrangement with that school, and the Koch Cultural Trust makes grants for
$5K so that WSU art students can have that experience. The grant covers the cost of attending (about 2500 Eu) and the cost of travel and materials which you have to buy there, as you can't fly with solvents etc. You can receive the grant up to 3 times, so if all goes well, maybe I will get to receive that more than once. Application for the Koch trust amt is done several times a year, but for me, it will be Nov. 1.
Then, you also have to apply to the school (portfolio of work for both applications).
 
There is one other travel opportunity that I'm hoping to do while I'm at WSU. One of the art history classes I have to take will
be about Contemporary European Art and the travel at the end of that class goes to the most prestigous international biannual
in Venice, Italy the Venice Biennele in 2011. That same class travel stays about 3 days in Venice, then comes back via Istanbul, Turkey for four days... woot! I will be making a serious trip to the Istabul spice market for saffron and cardamon and some other exotics.
Venice is very expensive, and despite the fabulous renaissance art, it stinks to high heaven and is hot and difficult to manuever thru, having
huge staircases to travass (sp?) at multiple opportunities. However, it is still Venice, like no where else on earth, so I am looking forward to that opportunity.
 
Painting this semester will involve some conceptual art works that I am attempting that could be right out of Burning Man, and in fact,
if I pull them off, I might try to make a transportable sectional variant of them, and try once in my life while I still can to actually attend Burning Man. Of course, what I would really need to go to Burning Man is one of those 1Mil NASA air conditioned suits, but you know, with technology advancing, I might be able to either buy something similar (like a rubberised skin that covered the head and shoulders that had tubes that circulated cooled liquid that chilled the core of the body... from a small CPU with maybe dry ice and a recepticle for water that was cooled by the dry ice... ? Just a thought :)
 
Anwy, the first conceptual piece: A wooden frame of about 3' x 4' is faced with wire mesh grill onto which a construction of leaves, cast paper arms/ hands, and other materials that can burn would be constructed on the wire frame work. Behind this, is placed and affixed a canvas or art paper surface the same size as the grill. This whole frame is then secured to a two post arrangement fixed into the ground, in an area that is approved safe for the immolation process... accompanied by fire permits, fire extinguishes, video and parabolic sound recording capabilities. The surface of the canvas is either saturated (and dried) with chemical compounds that will change in color due to heat. (like salt solutions, ferric chloride, or other chemicals - or another dispersment plan would be to attach tiny glass ampules of different chemical solutions to the back of the grill and on top of the paper that would break due to heat as the front construction burns.
 
After the art construction is finished on the grill, and the whole attached to the stabilizing posts, the entire surface would be outlined with magnesium fusing, that essentially would burn from its ignition point (perhaps electronic fuse ignition?) and would follow the outline of the materials that are affixed to the grill. The entire burn would be done (optimally) at night, with video equipment that can record high focus imagry by the light of the materials burning only, no flood lights or camera lighting.... as I want the recording to be exactly as a person would see the event. A parabolic microphone would be set up so that it can capture the sounds of the material burning as well as the tiny glass ampules breaking to disburse their saline solutions to the canvas. When the entire construction (except the frame) has consumed itself, the work would be allowed to cool, and the remaining canvas object would represent a physical record of the process of consumption by fire. I have similar "process" pieces planned for elemental corresponding physical processes such as the dispersal action of water, air and movement of earth by geologic or geo thermal movements like volcano or earthquake. I haven't worked out how those will work in detail yet, but I'm ruminating about them still. So, those are what I'm going to work on in Painting this term.
 
I'm a graduate teaching assistant this semester in Drawing I. So far, that is going well. We'll see how the rest of the semester goes. Next term, I am hoping for 2 assist positions, or 1 primary teaching position, in which I would teach the class entirely by myself. Hope that proceeds successfully.
 
Well, not much else that's news. It has finally stopped being 109 outside and the weather is actually beautiful.
It won't be long before it's unbearably cold and miserable, but I'm trying to enjoy the great weather while it lasts.
 
Write or call me sometime. I would like to come visit you for a few days next spring, during spring break, perhaps, or if that isn't possible,
then next summer after I (fingers crossed) get back from Italy. If I get the grant, I will go there from May 10th for 3 weeks. It gets too hot for me in the later summer sessions. Here's the link to the school... Look at the pictures. Meals are prepared by native Umbrian chefs and served on the piazza of the school, which is on the hilltop of the 14th cent Italian town of Montecastello. Every week the students travel to Rome, Florence, Sienna, Verona etc for a whole day of museums... another (swoon!) delight of the school experience.